## Task 3
" ..... Moving on to the top 10, we have *air conditioning* and *refrigeration* which
provided improvements in comfort and health and gave us the ability to transport fresh food and extend its shelf life. Next is the *telephone*. Instantaneous worldwide communications serve both family and business needs. When the founder of IBM, Tom Watson, reportedly predicted before World War II that there was a world market for about 5 *computers*, he slightly underestimated the number of machines and applications for these devices which reached number 8 on our list. The world's population grew from 1.6 billion to 6 billion souls during this past century, a milestone that could not have been reached without number 7, *agricultural mechanization*. More impressive is the fact that the portion of the population necessary to feed the world has been reduced from slightly more than half in 1900 to just a few percent today.
One step higher, at number 6, are *radio and television*. Although Marconi first demonstrated radio in 1895, he broadcast the first transoceanic signal in 1901. In the fifth position is *electronics*, from
vacuum tubes to transistors, integrated circuits and microcircuitry. Fourth are the technologies that *purify* and deliver safe and *abundant water*. *Water treatment* and distribution techniques led to longer lives and better living standards around the globe. The *airplane* is ranked third. From its birth in 1903 with no obvious important use, aircraft rapidly changed the character of warfare, found dozens of new uses, and in the latter half of the century decimated passenger competition in trains and ships.
The second ranked engineering contribution is the *automobile*. It too was a nineteenth century invention, but its development in the twentieth century demanded that it be considered a competitor.
Passenger cars and trucks are the major transporters of people and cargo around the world, and the automobile has expanded the ease, practicality, and affordability of short- to medium-range travel enormously.
Now, at this point, if we were in the entertainment world, we would have drum rolls, fanfares, and rockets. But as engineers we are not so inclined - well, maybe a few rockets. The winner, the top-rated engineering improvement to the life of earthlings in the 20 century was *electrification*.
The majority of the top achievements would not have been possible without electricity. Electrification changed the country's economic development and gave rural populations the opportunities and amenities as people in cities. It provides the power for small appliances in the home, for computers in control rooms that route power and telecommunications, and for the machinery that produces capital goods and consumer products. If anything shines as an example of how engineering has changed the world during the 20th century, it is clearly the power that we use in our homes and businesses."